add nodejs v18 (#15)
navarroaxel/navarroaxel.github.io: blog/nodejs-18.md

# Node.js 18: new fetch and test runner APIs

> This week Node.js v18 was released and we can found a few amazing things in this major release. Let's check the most important ones. 🚀

Reviewer: en lugar de '_things_' usaria '_changes_', '_stuff_', o algun similar

Reviewer: stuff no es muy tecnico, pero se entiende a lo que apunto

Author: ```suggestion
This week Node.js v18 was released and we can found a few amazing stuff in this major release. Let's check the most important ones. 🚀
```

## The fetch API

Say good bye to the `node-fetch` package, now the `fetch` API is available on the global scope by default.

```javascript
const res = await fetch('https://api.belo.app/public/price');
if (res.ok) {
  const data = await res.json();
  console.log(data);
}
```

We can make requests like we do in browsers. 🙌

## Test Runner module

Now, we can create tests in Node.js without needing an external package.

```javascript
import test from 'node:test';
import assert from 'node:assert';

test('synchronous passing test', (t) => {
  // This test passes because it does not throw an exception.
  assert.strictEqual(1, 1);
});
```

> Also, we can group subtests in a parent test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, we can group subtests within a parent test.
```

```javascript
test('top level test', async (t) => {
  await t.test('subtest 1', (t) => {
    assert.strictEqual(1, 1);
  });

  await t.test('subtest 2', (t) => {
    assert.strictEqual(2, 2);
  });
});
```

> Learn more in <https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v18.x/docs/api/test.html>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more at <https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v18.x/docs/api/test.html>.
```

## Prefix-only core module

> Did you see that strange import?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Have you seen this strange import?
```

```javascript
import test from 'node:test';
```

> Since this version all core modules can be imported using the `node:` prefix, there is no difference between importing `fs` and `node:fs`. But the `test` module only can be imported using the prefixed form: `node:test`.

Reviewer: en lugar de '_since this version_' pondria algo asi como '_from now on_'

> Since this version all core modules can be imported using the `node:` prefix, there is no difference between importing `fs` and `node:fs`. But the `test` module only can be imported using the prefixed form: `node:test`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since this release all core modules can be imported using the `node:` prefix, there is no difference between importing `fs` and `node:fs`. But the `test` module only can be imported using the prefixed form: `node:test`.
```

> 💡 If when you load `node:test` the `node:` prefix is not included, Node.js will attempt to load a module named `test` from the `node_modules` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
💡 If when loading `node:test` the `node:` prefix is not included, Node.js will attempt to load a module named `test` from the `node_modules` folder.
```

## The V8 10.1

> Node.js v18 comes with V8 engine v10.1, which is part of Chromium 101. Compared to the version included in Node.js v17, the following new features are included:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Node.js v18 comes with V8 engine v10.1 which is part of Chromium v101, in spite of the versions included in Node.js v17 that didn't include these features:
```

* The [`findLast` and `findLastIndex` array methods](https://v8.dev/features/finding-in-arrays).
* Improvements to the [`Intl.Locale` API](https://v8.dev/blog/v8-release-99#intl.locale-extensions).
* The [`Intl.supportedValuesOf` function](https://v8.dev/blog/v8-release-99#intl.locale-extensions).

## Conclusion

> There are more changes in this major release, we only review the most important ones. Remember that this version will be promoted to LTS in October of this year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this post we've only mentioned the most important changes included in this release. Remember that this version will be promoted to LTS in October of this year.
```
